The city could
have got help from the government. I know one night
I was at a community meeting over in Brown and our
representative in Washington was at that meeting
and he told us that he could get us some help and I
remember that I In reply to that offer, I told him
that we didn't want any help, that we would live
within our means, and that we would hope to grow,
but I personally didn't like the idea of somebody
else carrying our load.
I've already told you we had no bonded
indebtedness. We took these utilities over and
paid for them. After a few years you see we got it
done but we used the income from the water and from
the electricity to pay them off. And we got out and
owning those systems without having to borrow
money. But I did. The first money that the city ever
borrowed was when Ernest Langford, the man who
succeeded me as mayor, came to me about a year after
he had been in office and asked me if I would loan
them $500, which I did. And as a friend to me, he
says, now, this is going to be the last bill we pay
back, so you can really make something out of it.
Now, that's, oh, my, I get to slide. I don't know
where to begin or where to quit. I bet. I bet he is.
Well, why did you decide to run for office? Why did
you decide to be the mayor? I told these people when
they came around. They were good friends of mine. I
told them, I don't know where to thank you or insult
you. Some people came and asked you to be mayor?
Yes. Who were they? Well, Mr. Barton is the only one
left. Mr. Bonin was on that committee. He came and
asked me if I'd run. And the faculty was on my side in
all this trouble with the college and the board of
directors. The faculty was just, oh, they just
were so pleased with me. Because I got these
roughnecks off of the freshmen. And this school
started to grow in. And the faculty was with me. But
they were, they didn't dare say anything. They
didn't come out and publish that they were farming
because the board of directors might have fired
them because the board of directors wanted to keep
the system. They were all Aggies. I remember one
time I had a meeting with, the senior class had a
meeting, they asked me to come to it over in the old
YMCA. The old YMCA used to have a chapel and that's
all into rooms. It's where a whole lot of the office
work of the college is now. But it's the one with the
big steps. Sure, I know where it is.
Well,
you were saying that you were having a meeting. Oh,
I was having a meeting with these boys. I remember
old Joe Routt. Joe Routt Boulevard's name for him.
He says, won't you please quit trying to change our
school? I said, Joe...
I said, Joe, this school doesn't belong to you. It
belongs to the state of Texas. You don't have
rights. You don't have a right to do things you want
to do and what these boys have been doing around
here. Somebody has to do something about it. And
I'm going to do something about it. Because it's
not right for you to think it's all right for you to
run off these freshmen like you're doing. Well, he
said, we'd rather have 1,500 agas than 15,000 tea
sippers. I said, I'm just as tough as you are, and
maybe a whole lot tougher. So you haven't got
anything to be proud of. I respect A&M. I love A&M. I
want to do something for A&M. I've been here 12
years already. And I'm determined to do it. All
right, they go over and tell Dr. Walton they want to
get rid of me. And then Dr. Walton asks the board of
directors to come up here. And the board of
directors have a meeting. And they ask for this
senior, and this senior, and this senior, and this
senior, or come down there, and they don't ask for
me. I went down there, and I said, listen, you came
up here to investigate something, and I want you to
start out with me, rather than not everybody else
but me. I'm doing something for you. You can't
hire. You've had lots of commandants, and none of
them have done what they ought to do. You ought to
know better yourselves.
You either want my what I want, or you don't want me.
Now, that's just up to you now. You can just tell me
to close out and go. They didn't dare do it. They
would like to have done it, but the state of Texas is
on my side,
and they didn't dare do it. And they just said, oh,
you've done a wonderful job. You saved us this last
year $15,000 on broken up furniture and slats
kicked out of doors. These boys just knock off
their screens and throw them away. They just rough
on everything. They had no consideration for
anybody else. They took advantage of the
situation and messed up the furniture. Well, I
told Dr. Walton they're going to quit that. When I
took the job, I said, now there's certain things,
Dr. Walton, I'm going to see if they don't do. I'm
going to make them sign for this room, everything
that's in it, just like it is. And they are going to
have to replace anything. They're going to have to
pay for it. And I made them do it. They didn't like
that. They didn't like a lot of things. They made
the freshmen stay in their rooms from the time they
were out, unless they were out in some company
sport or something like that. They made them stay
in their rooms.
They were room-bound after their last class. They
couldn't go to Brown. They couldn't go visit
somebody else. They stayed in their thing so they
could be there to run errands for the
upperclassmen and things like that. I talked to
Dean Bolton and asked him, let's do something
about some of these things. He says, oh, well,
let's don't be too in a hurry like that. I said, now
let's let them go to Brown after December the 10th,
which is the first grade. If they pass all the work
due for December the 10th, I'm going to say that
they ought to be allowed to leave that room and stay
out until quarter to quarters. Well, he wouldn't
agree with me. Next year, I didn't talk to him. I
just passed a rule and published it. Freshman, if
you are passing your work on December the 10th, you
are a free man. I don't want to see you in your room
unless you're studying. I rubbed it in on him.
Listen, I have gone up to that campus and found a
sophomore drilling the freshman at 3 o'clock in
the morning. It was just a system that was too hard
in running people away. Huh? It was something that
was scaring people off. Is that right? Well, it was
something to keep them from studying. That's
right. They did everything they could to run them
off. They said, just like Joe Wright said, we're
making aggies here. Rough stuff, real stuff.
Texas A&M, as their chief yells, And we were the
bullies of the conference. Nobody liked us. They
would crash the gate. They'd just go to the games.
Unruly. Nobody down here would do anything about
it. Well, I took the two or three army officers that
were supposed to be working with the and we told
these people, now listen, don't you get caught up
there without a, don't you get caught up there
without a ticket. Now that happened after we took
the first football team to, well the first court
trip went up to TCU and the Texas Hotel and don't go
on if they didn't run off with all the towels and
linen and, well it was the same thing, they wanted
to take one man, Charles, His name was, I can't
think of it right now, his first name was Charles.
He was a senior, he took a floor lamp. All we did, all
we did was just, they always drilled on Thursday
afternoon. They were out with the army officers
drilling. Nobody in their rooms. Didn't have
anybody but cadets in those days. Just military
pure. So we in the commandant's office, we had pass
keys to every dormitory. And so we went there. They
ran off with just all kinds of stuff. And so the man
wrote me after he got back home and said, we don't
think we'd keep A&M teams anymore because they ran
off all that stuff. I wrote him back. I said, well,
you know who's in that room and you know what to do.
Just make me a list of that. And they made me a list of
that, and I sent for those boys one at a time. I said,
you're lucky that you're not shipped from school,
but you sit right down here and sign this letter
that's already written where you apologize for
stealing that towel. And you're going to take it
right over here in front of me and put it in this
envelope, mail this envelope and this package,
which you're going to wrap right now. And we're
going to send that back to the hotel with your
apologies for taking it. And you're not going on
any other court trip this year. You're going to
stay here. I'm putting you in the bullring. I don't
care where he's a senior or where he was a freshman.
If he took something from that room, they must have
taken 500 things. Oh, no.
Let's see. Oh, we were talking about the election.
When you were mayor and a committee of citizens
asked you to run, is that right? Yes, that's right.
Do you remember that election? Did anyone run
against you? There was a student. A student
decided to run? I don't know. He turned out later on
to be a colonel in the army. But I don't know, he
didn't get any votes. The students couldn't vote.
They didn't know they could if they did. Well, how
did you govern the town since you didn't have a city
manager? I was the city manager. I was the mayor and
city manager. I helped put in fire plugs, and we
didn't order anything, but we had very little that
we ordered. But, and our policeman was the, and I
together
did the job. So it must have taken a lot of your time.
It took all, every morning, all morning long,
every morning. For two years. Were there, had
y'all talked about putting in a city manager? Do
you know, it wasn't during your term? No, we, that
happened after, Ernest took it over. Two or three
years after that, I guess, they got a city manager.
But y'all, you didn't... We never had a city
manager, no, no. During your term, the council and
yourself voted the ward system in? The ward
system? The awards system. The wards. W-A-R-D-S,
wards? I don't remember that. Oh, okay. Yeah. All
right.
Oh, College Station has always had a lot of
emphasis on recreation. Yes. Can you tell me why?
Can I have an opinion as to why they have so much
recreation?
Well, I think they're just fairly wise people.
See, I'm a coach. I've given my life to serious
recreation. That is to accomplish something that
you think is worthwhile that's hard to get. I've
concentrated on helping boys find themselves and
proving they can go somewhere and do things. Build
strength and determination and confidence in the
fact that they can do it and win and get ahead of
somebody else in a far way, in a far way always. Now
that, I don't know, I don't know where this place
is. It's a little unusual, but other people have
what we have. They don't have a high school coach
like Geesey. He's a Crocker Jack. I hope he's the
track coach at A&M College sometime, but he can't
be because these boys are doing all right that have
the job, and he's old as they are, I guess. But he
needs to be rewarded for doing as much as he's doing
in athletics.
He has the finest track teams in the state, and he
won it.
I think that recreation,
it's a change. It
gives you a lift.
We need to use our muscle. We need to strengthen
everything in us. And the only way to build
strength work it in, play it in, use it, and health,
and long life. Really? As an example, find
yourself. The city has just got through a
movement, the biggest brush fire you ever saw. You
see these shrubs out there?
I'll call you. I'll send you a file. 503 Fireview,
and the trees that are in the front yard, I dug them
up and planted them. We bought that house for $600.
We cut it in two because it had a wing on it, and it was
a little bit too big to move to get down there. So
they had to cut it in two and then they moved it down
there. It cost $900 to move it, it cost $600 to build
it, to buy it. But we lived in it until, oh, until our
son decided that we just needed a smaller place,
easier to take care of and so forth, and so he built
this out and said, come on. I gave that to one of my
sons, another one, and... He sold it later on, but
it's still a good house. Why did the board of
directors want you to move off campus? Everybody.
They made a rule that nobody could live on the
campus but the president. And why was that? Well,
they just didn't want to have to bother building
homes for them. Oh, I see. See, they probably have
3,500 people. working for them now. And they
didn't have the space or the money or the
inclination. And they just solved that problem by
saying, well, just move off. Oh, I see. And so you
bought a house? We bought a house from the college.
An old house that a friend of ours lived in. It was,
well, heck, it cost, you couldn't put that roof on
that house now for $600. It had a slate roof. It is
just like it was. It'll be that way, I don't know,
unless there's some awful big hail burst into it.
It won't leak or it won't wear out. Well, the campus
owned the homes and then certain people could rent
them? The college owned them. The college built
them and paid for them. And then when they wanted to
move them off, they just said, we'll sell it to you.
And they just practically gave them to the people
that bought them. And we bought that home for $600.
Well,
there's been, I've been reading newspapers and
things, and there's a historic rivalry between
College Station and Bryan. Was that apparent when
you were mayor? Do you have any examples of that?
Oh, it's no worse or no better. It's just two
communities.
You can't get two communities that don't have
problems with each other. They live so close
together, everything is kind of mixed in. We're in
one way, we're just one big, one bigger city, but
we've got two administrations here and there. I
used to keep my funds and what little I had
in the First National Bank, but, and I used to
belong to the, to the, to the Quantas Club over
there in Bryan. But then when they had them out
here, I just pulled up and came out here. Just left
their bank and I left their clubs and came on out
here because this is where I live. Would people
have been happy if Bryan had become their city and
asked for the land? Well, if they'd just wiped out
the boundary and had one headquarters and been one
city. It could have been done all right.
We had our friends in Brown. We had no problems at
all, except just the fact that the merchants, when
they had a store out here, they didn't want us to go
over there and buy stuff. And
when a man built a house out here, We didn't want
Brian to be furnishing electricity, for
instance. Things like that had to be solved. That
was one of
them. Did you encourage any commercial
development when you were mayor? No, none
whatsoever. You wanted it to remain a... I
wouldn't have been good for College Station
because I don't like to go in debt. When I graduated
from college, I borrowed $10 to help me get to the
Kansas harvest fields. I haven't borrowed
anybody since. I don't like to go in debt either. I
haven't. And we're fairly well off. We're doing
all right. Things, I've made more one way or
another since I had the job with the college
than I did then. I came out here for $2,400 and after
10 years I'm making $2,700.
Living in a college house, it cost me $20 a month It
didn't belong to that little department. That
little department had two houses. The head coach
had one and I had the other. So your money went a lot
further those days. We had a cook. We had a cook. Had
a... We can't afford one now. We have one twice a
week. But then we had one seven days a week. And she
upraised the kids. Christmas came along one
Christmas. We went to Mexico City with another
couple and left the kids at home with this very
dependable good old girl. colored girl. We had a
servant's house and she lived in there and we
furnished the food and everything and paid her
four dollars a week.
That was the life in those days. That was
everybody. They didn't, nobody made any money at
A&M College. Why the, the uh, these assistant
professors probably get as much money as Tom
Harrington got as president.
When you became mayor, did you have a specific plan
for the city? Did you want to see the city go? Well,
my plan for the city was just do everything you can
to have a better school. I was chairman of
the equalization board. at one time and we just,
everybody tried to be a good citizen and support
and expand our schools as people came in and we
grew.
I've never, I have never felt
like that That the country was, the city or the
state or the nation was taking advantage of me, I'd
like to pay my taxes.
I don't like to see them wasted, though. That's the
reason I don't like politicians. I don't like
politicians who get Uncle Sam to support their
baby at the expense of all the balance of us. We're
going in debt too far. We're going in debt so fast
that There's a limit. There's a limit. We will go in
debt to where we'd be where Germany was at the end of
the Second World War. A mark got to where you took a
million marks to buy a pound of butter. Oh, no. It's
terrible. So if we keep on going like we're going,
though, if we do what the Democrats want us to do and
spend money like they did spend, now listen. The
Democrats put us where we are. Reagan didn't put us
where we are. We're going down steeper with Reagan
because they had us going down hell so darn fast we
can't get stopped.
And he's trying to save us. He's trying to salvage
our liberty. Can anybody and everybody see what
the Soviet Union's doing? They have conquered all
of their part of Europe, They're now going into
Asia. They've got Cuba. They've got Nicaragua.
And the whole Central America is in a turmoil. If
they get there, then Mexico may fall next. And
we'll have all of that stuff over there that the
Soviet Union can launch an attack from. They'll
put their stuff over there. Now, if we can get
Western Europe to let us put those missiles in to
match up everything they've got, we can delay and
maybe keep them
off of our necks. If they're allowed to have theirs
there, they'll get ready. And if they keep on
growing and we don't invest and match them,
Missiles from missiles, if we get weak and they get
much, much stronger, they'll dictate peace to us
because they'll tell Europe, who are our allies,
we'll pulverize you. They've already got them up.
They've got those missiles in place and within
range of leveling every big city in France and
England and Italy. And they'll say, you make a move
toward, we're going to take the United States on.
We're going to make them bite the bullet. That
wouldn't be very good. And if the Republican Party
blocks him from putting those missiles in, that
day will come quicker. If we get ready, they're
devils. They're liars. They're cheaters.
They're just everything in the world. They just
want to wipe out a free society. It hurts them.
They're having a hard time because a lot of people
don't, they're not popular with a lot of people
because they have made the serf a slave. He was a
serf when Ivan was a serf under the Ghazars. I can
remember all those times. But they just shot all
the big landowners. They called them the kulaks.
They just shot those people to get them out of the
way so we could tell the poor folks that are living
on that land what they have to do to balance their
lives. And the factories there took them over.
They just shot the people that owned them so that
there wouldn't be any problem with them anymore.
And then they told these people, you're going to
work. here and you're going to work there and
you're going to support yourselves. We won't help
you any. We're going to give you enough, but you're
working for us. We're going to skim off the profit.
This man has a garden. Enough to support and he has
chickens and he has a cow. He has a plow and a hoe. And
he supports himself, but he has to give most of
those vegetables and that grain and so forth to the
central pot, to the Soviet Union. And they still
can't feed themselves. Because when you take away
the desire for profit, people don't work hard.
They're not happy. They don't work. They just
piddle. They do what they have to do to keep being
shot or sent to Siberia. So they're in bad shape.
But they're in worse shape as long as we have
freedom. They want to take our freedom away from us
so that the people won't be able to look off and say
they're better off than we are. And that's the
reason they want to take us over. Can I ask you, do
you feel like there was a, what was the biggest
problem that you faced in your term? Did you have
any problems? my biggest problem of my whole life.
No, no, your term is mayor. Your term is mayor. I
don't think I let it bother me. I don't think I let it
bother me. Did you, was there any great
achievement that you felt like College Station
achieved? No, no we just we just paid for the for the
light poles and the wires that went between them
and the water
stuff pipes that went in the ground to carry the
water to them we paid off the stuff we took over
from the developers and by that time we were having
enough income from the sale of electricity and
from the sale of the water we weren't paid we we had a
one policeman and we had no city manager And we
weren't getting any money. We had one girl and we
probably paid her $75 a month, I don't know, maybe
$60 a month, I don't know. We didn't have any
expenses. We used the money we took in to pay up, pay
these people off that built the, put in the
electric lines and the water system and the sewer
system. We paid them off. The people that live in
this house paid for those three things. They're
still paying for them. people to pay their way
rather than go into debt. We didn't owe a dollar.
Didn't owe a dollar. Not one dollar did we owe. Do
you like the way that College Station has
developed? The way you see it today? I'm not
criticizing them at all. I think they're lucky
that they didn't have me. I think they're awful
lucky that they didn't have me because I didn't
care. I wanted the school to grow, but I didn't care
a thing about College Station growing other than
just give room for the professors. I see. You
wanted it to remain small, a small college town. A
small college town, yeah.
I told that this man who was down here, and we had
this meeting over in Bryan. Mrs. Magda Parker used
to have a uh place where she fed a lot of people and uh
the different the civil clubs met up there and we
had this town meeting for their combined for them
and here and i told you the man that was the head of
the man that was the head of teague say
you know about teague he was our representative
for many many many years well he was a he was a boy in
school when I was commandant. And then later on, he
got to be a second lieutenant. He was that when he
left A&M. Then later on, he was ready and had done
the work to be a first lieutenant. And I was the
senior officer around this part of the country,
and so they had two other colonels to come in. And we
three checked him over and made the
recommendation that he get his promotion to first
lieutenant. So that was what I helped do for
Congressman Teague. Now, but I like this one
better than that. I like this man's, what he's
doing more than I did for Tiger Teague. Graham,
you're talking about? Graham, yeah. I have a
letter from him every week or two. Oh, that's
wonderful.
You were called into World War II. How did the city,
did the city do anything to prepare for war? Did the
city, did College Station do anything to prepare
for war, for World War II? Oh yeah, yeah. We had our
committees set up, and we had a lot of people. We
lived right across the street from somebody who
dug a pit where they could go in case of a bomb threat
or a bomb. They started bombing anywhere, and they
dug a pit and stocked it with so forth, our
next-door neighbor. So there was a movement there
to do that. A few people did it, not many of
them. I never was very much excited over that. I
didn't much think that they were going to do
anything like that at that time. I don't think
they're going to do anything like that now. I think
that they wouldn't bother small towns,
certainly. They'd have to, they'd have to hit the
big cities though. In order to win the war, they'd
have to do that.
Well, is there anything else that you might want to
add about what the concentration was like before
or just your term as mayor that I haven't
questioned you about?
Everybody's nice to us. We have a lot of friends and
we like it. I
don't take any dish though in their duties. I don't
support anybody that's running for office at
College Station. I don't know enough about them to
do that. And as far as I can tell, everything's
going along very well.
Now, nationally, I'm taking more interest
because we can't print money. And the state of
Texas or no other state can print money. But the
United States government can print money And all
they have to do is to print a little more of it.
They've printed too much of it already.
The more money they put in circulation, if they pay
off debts, and if they pay it, we draw Social
Security. We also draw a retired army. I stayed in
the army between, I stayed active between the two
world wars.
I went to camp two weeks, practically every year,
and over there we'd have a bunch of A&M
artillerymen that graduated here, and they were
over there as second lieutenants, or maybe if they
were a little older they were first lieutenants,
or maybe they might be a captain of the team. That
would be at the A&M artillery group. I was with the
field artillery.
We had two weeks training there. We worked hard and
we had a lot of fun together. We always played a
little. We always had a nice little party at the end
of the thing and it was just a nice experience. And
when World War II came along, they didn't want us. I
don't think they wanted us. When I got this call, it
says now you don't have to come unless you want to. I
think they had really rather that we didn't come,
because I was too old to go overseas already, 52.
And I didn't know that. I didn't know that I wasn't
going to be allowed to go overseas, but they sent me
and seven other old colonels who had been loyal and
worked good hard with an outfit between the new
wars. They felt like they just owed it to us to give
us a chance if they wanted to come to come. So we did.
There were seven of us and we went up to school and we
went through the basic course again. I'd already
been through the artillery school 1917-18 up at
Fort Sill and then
This time they sent us back and we took the basic
course, which is much easier than that war course
was. And then after they took the basic course,
they didn't have anything for us to do, so they just
kept us up there on a board. To do this, investigate
that, do this, that, and the other, and there's
always something like that going on. And then to
pick people who have been drafted and they want to
go to a cadet camp where they maybe be second
lieutenants. get ready to get a promotion you see
and so we we had recommended these people that the
captains had sent to us we had talked to them and and
if we felt like they offered material we had
recommended they go to this school things like
that they kept us done for a good many months
And then they finally decided, after all, they
didn't have anything else much for us to do. And
they sent us up there, and they sent us to different
places. Sent me to Fort Jackson over in North
Carolina. That's where they ought to have left me
through the balance of the war. That's where we
were training the recruits, people to fill in, to
fill gaps in casualties overseas. But they
decided they'd better send me off there to
something after a year or so, and I went to 30th
Division. And they were training, getting ready
to go overseas, to Oklahoma, Tennessee. And I was
with them there, and then they sent us up, finished
that, they sent us up to Indianapolis. And we did a
little more work over there, and then they sent
them overseas. And here I was about 52, and there
was a cutoff. No, can't go. And so I went, I said,
I've been in the Army now for a good many months, and
I'm just drawing colonel's pay and doing
something my captain can do, inspect a mess or
something like that, or do other things. And I
didn't come in the Army to do that kind of stuff, and
I won't go home. And I've got a job back at A&M
College. And they turned me down. They did? Yeah.
And so they offered me a place to go to West Point.
They said, you go up there and be a teacher at West
Point. I said, well, I'm not the type. I'm a field
soldier. I'm not the type that has a press blouse
every week and shiny. And I just don't fit in to go to
West Point. I'm way beyond that in the Army. the way
I, what I think that an army man at my age should be
doing. And finally, finally I just wrote him
another letter and I said, now listen,
I'm going to, I'm,
thank you honey. I'm going to really expose you if
you don't let me go. Because you just are making me
do something that is degrading as far as a colonel
is supposed to be doing. And you're paying me for
doing something I'm not earning the money for. Now
you better just let me loose now." And they let me
go. Oh my goodness. I came on back to A&M College and
fitted right in and went on just like I'd never
been. As the track coach? Yeah. Well um I
appreciate this interview. Well now this is not
much about the City of College Station. Well if you
I if you have other things is there some more that we
can talk about that that you remember? There's I uh
I don't I don't know I don't know of anything I don't
know of anything the the mayor In those days, well,
just like I said, if there was a polecat around,
they'd call the city office. Well, I'd go get my
gun. If there was a mad dog out, well, I'd go get my
gun.
What if there was an accident? Well, just things
like that. What if there was some kind of accident?
What if there was an accident? An accident? There
was an accident where the mayor ahead of me was
killed in an automobile accident. Oh, Mr. Benny?
Huh? Mr. Benny? Yes. He was the first mayor. And he
was mayor for only a certain number of months. And
when he was killed in an automobile accident. And
then they didn't have any mayor until that time.